So now that we've talked about various
parts of Vuex and using it in single
file components, we're gonna talk about a
really quick pattern that I really enjoy.
It's called Vuex Helpers.
And it's a way in which you can write Vuex
in a way that is super clean and clear.
And it reduces some extra boilerplate
code that you have to write.
So far we've looked at our code in
the context of the store, obviously,
cuz we're dealing with the store itself.
But, specifically,
when we are talking to the store and
getting access to the store,
we need to access it using this.$store.
So, for instance, if we're accessing
the state or the stock, for
instance, we need to do
this.$store.state.stock, and so on.
And so this can get really clunky,
the more pieces of states and the more
dispatches to the actions that we're doing
because we always have to do this.$store.
Helpers is one way in which we can
reduce some of that extra code.
And it gives you a way of writing
Vuex without having to have extra
code associated with it.
In general, with Vuex Helpers,
you have the ability to mapState,
Actions, Getters, and Mutations.
And we'll look into what
that looks like now.
So, what I wanna do,
is I want to refactor my state.
So, I'm not doing this
.$store.state.stock anymore.
I'm doing a mapState.
So, the way mapState works is that,
mapState takes in an array of all
the states that you want to access.
So, in this instance,
I want to access my stock.
And so I can do mapState,
like ...mapState, and
then access the specific attribute.
And then I no longer have
to write this.$store.state.
I automatically have access to
the item that I want access to.
Similarly, we can do the same for
mapActions.
We can get rid of this.$store and
dispatch.
And we can use the ...mapActions, and
we can parse in the name of
the specific action we want access to.
So if fetchFromInventory is
the action we want to dispatch,
we can specifically grab that action.
Unfortunately, there's no way for
you to call that action without
explicitly doing so in a method.
So we still need to have
the action called restock.
And restock is just calling
the action fetchFromInventory.
And that's necessary just to hook those
two pieces up, so it's a bit cleaner.
Because if you don't do this,
the viewInstance doesn't know what
exactly fetchFromInventory is
on component initialization.
So, the method is just a way in which
we can make sure that the viewComponent
knows exactly what action to
call when it needs to call.
And so we can also do something really
neat with mapActions, specifically.
And that is we can rename the actions
that we're trying to access.
So, the array syntax is nice because
we can just grab the specific action.
But there are times when you want to
rename specific thing for clarity.
And in this instance, what we can
do is we're not passing an array,
we're passing an object.
And so
I'm going to rename fetchFromInventory
to restockItems as you see on line 23.
And then I can appropriately
access it in my restock
method on line 25 by
calling this.restockItem.
A very key thing to note
is that your method and
whatever you call your
action cannot be the same.
Because view will actually have a error,
which is the maximum call
stack reached because it
wouldn't know which one to call.
So you want to make sure that your action
is named differently from your method
itself.
So that's something
really important to know.